The SQL `CASE` expression is a generic conditional expression, similar to if/else statements in other programming languages:

```
CASE WHEN condition THEN result
     [WHEN ...]
     [ELSE result]
END
```

`CASE` clauses can be used wherever an expression is valid. Each *`condition`* is an expression that returns a `boolean` result. If the condition's result is true, the value of the `CASE` expression is the *`result`* that follows the condition, and the remainder of the `CASE` expression is not processed. If the condition's result is not true, any subsequent `WHEN` clauses are examined in the same manner. If no `WHEN` *`condition`* yields true, the value of the `CASE` expression is the *`result`* of the `ELSE` clause. If the `ELSE` clause is omitted and no condition is true, the result is null.

An example:

```
SELECT * FROM test;

 a
---
 1
 2
 3


SELECT a,
       CASE WHEN a=1 THEN 'one'
            WHEN a=2 THEN 'two'
            ELSE 'other'
       END
    FROM test;

 a | case
---+-------
 1 | one
 2 | two
 3 | other
```

The data types of all the *`result`* expressions must be convertible to a single output type. See [Section 10.5](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/typeconv-union-case.html) for more details.

There is a “simple” form of `CASE` expression that is a variant of the general form above:

```
CASE expression
    WHEN value THEN result
    [WHEN ...]
    [ELSE result]
END
```

The first *`expression`* is computed, then compared to each of the *`value`* expressions in the `WHEN` clauses until one is found that is equal to it. If no match is found, the *`result`* of the `ELSE` clause (or a null value) is returned. This is similar to the `switch` statement in C.

The example above can be written using the simple `CASE` syntax:

```
SELECT a,
       CASE a WHEN 1 THEN 'one'
              WHEN 2 THEN 'two'
              ELSE 'other'
       END
    FROM test;

 a | case
---+-------
 1 | one
 2 | two
 3 | other
```

A `CASE` expression does not evaluate  any subexpressions that are not needed to determine the result. For  example, this is a possible way of avoiding a division-by-zero failure:

```
SELECT ... WHERE CASE WHEN x <> 0 THEN y/x > 1.5 ELSE false END;
```

### Note

As described in [Section 4.2.14](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-expressions.html#SYNTAX-EXPRESS-EVAL), there are various situations in which subexpressions of an expression  are evaluated at different times, so that the principle that “`CASE` evaluates only necessary subexpressions” is not ironclad. For example a constant `1/0` subexpression will usually result in a division-by-zero failure at planning time, even if it's within a `CASE` arm that would never be entered at run time.