The `simple` dictionary template operates  by converting the input token to lower case and checking it against a  file of stop words. If it is found in the file then an empty array is  returned, causing the token to be discarded. If not, the lower-cased  form of the word is returned as the normalized lexeme. Alternatively,  the dictionary can be configured to report non-stop-words as  unrecognized, allowing them to be passed on to the next dictionary in  the list.

Here is an example of a dictionary definition using the `simple` template:

```
CREATE TEXT SEARCH DICTIONARY public.simple_dict (
    TEMPLATE = pg_catalog.simple,
    STOPWORDS = english
);
```

Here, `english` is the base name of a file of stop words. The file's full name will be `$SHAREDIR/tsearch_data/english.stop`, where `$SHAREDIR` means the PostgreSQL installation's shared-data directory, often `/usr/local/share/postgresql` (use `pg_config --sharedir` to determine it if you're not sure). The file format is simply a list  of words, one per line. Blank lines and trailing spaces are ignored, and upper case is folded to lower case, but no other processing is done on  the file contents.

Now we can test our dictionary:

```
SELECT ts_lexize('public.simple_dict', 'YeS');
 ts_lexize
-----------
 {yes}

SELECT ts_lexize('public.simple_dict', 'The');
 ts_lexize
-----------
 {}
```

We can also choose to return `NULL`,  instead of the lower-cased word, if it is not found in the stop words  file. This behavior is selected by setting the dictionary's `Accept` parameter to `false`. Continuing the example:

```
ALTER TEXT SEARCH DICTIONARY public.simple_dict ( Accept = false );

SELECT ts_lexize('public.simple_dict', 'YeS');
 ts_lexize
-----------


SELECT ts_lexize('public.simple_dict', 'The');
 ts_lexize
-----------
 {}
```

With the default setting of `Accept` = `true`, it is only useful to place a `simple` dictionary at the end of a list of dictionaries, since it will never pass on any token to a following dictionary. Conversely, `Accept` = `false` is only useful when there is at least one following dictionary.

### Caution

Most types of dictionaries rely on configuration files, such as files of stop words. These files *must* be stored in UTF-8 encoding. They will be translated to the actual  database encoding, if that is different, when they are read into the  server.

### Caution

Normally, a database session will read a dictionary  configuration file only once, when it is first used within the session.  If you modify a configuration file and want to force existing sessions  to pick up the new contents, issue an `ALTER TEXT SEARCH DICTIONARY` command on the dictionary. This can be a “dummy” update that doesn't actually change any parameter values.