The Ispell dictionary template supports *morphological dictionaries*, which can normalize many different linguistic forms of a word into the same lexeme. For example, an English Ispell dictionary can match all declensions and conjugations of the search term `bank`, e.g., `banking`, `banked`, `banks`, `banks'`, and `bank's`.

The standard PostgreSQL distribution does not include any Ispell configuration files. Dictionaries for a large number of languages are available from [Ispell](https://www.cs.hmc.edu/~geoff/ispell.html). Also, some more modern dictionary file formats are supported — [MySpell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySpell) (OO < 2.0.1) and [Hunspell](https://hunspell.github.io/) (OO >= 2.0.2). A large list of dictionaries is available on the [OpenOffice Wiki](https://wiki.openoffice.org/wiki/Dictionaries).

To create an Ispell dictionary perform these steps:

- download dictionary configuration files. OpenOffice extension files have the `.oxt` extension. It is necessary to extract `.aff` and `.dic` files, change extensions to `.affix` and `.dict`. For some dictionary files it is also needed to convert characters to  the UTF-8 encoding with commands (for example, for a Norwegian language  dictionary):

  ```
  iconv -f ISO_8859-1 -t UTF-8 -o nn_no.affix nn_NO.aff
  iconv -f ISO_8859-1 -t UTF-8 -o nn_no.dict nn_NO.dic
  ```

- copy files to the `$SHAREDIR/tsearch_data` directory

- load files into PostgreSQL with the following command:

  ```
  CREATE TEXT SEARCH DICTIONARY english_hunspell (
      TEMPLATE = ispell,
      DictFile = en_us,
      AffFile = en_us,
      Stopwords = english);
  ```

Here, `DictFile`, `AffFile`, and `StopWords` specify the base names of the dictionary, affixes, and stop-words  files. The stop-words file has the same format explained above for the `simple` dictionary type. The format of the other files is not specified here but is available from the above-mentioned web sites.

Ispell dictionaries usually recognize a limited set of words, so  they should be followed by another broader dictionary; for example, a  Snowball dictionary, which recognizes everything.

The `.affix` file of Ispell has the following structure:

```
prefixes
flag *A:
    .           >   RE      # As in enter > reenter
suffixes
flag T:
    E           >   ST      # As in late > latest
    [^AEIOU]Y   >   -Y,IEST # As in dirty > dirtiest
    [AEIOU]Y    >   EST     # As in gray > grayest
    [^EY]       >   EST     # As in small > smallest
```

And the `.dict` file has the following structure:

```
lapse/ADGRS
lard/DGRS
large/PRTY
lark/MRS
```

Format of the `.dict` file is:

```
basic_form/affix_class_name
```

In the `.affix` file every affix flag is described in the following format:

```
condition > [-stripping_letters,] adding_affix
```

Here, condition has a format similar to the format of regular expressions. It can use groupings `[...]` and `[^...]`. For example, `[AEIOU]Y` means that the last letter of the word is `"y"` and the penultimate letter is `"a"`, `"e"`, `"i"`, `"o"` or `"u"`. `[^EY]` means that the last letter is neither `"e"` nor `"y"`.

Ispell dictionaries support splitting compound words; a useful  feature. Notice that the affix file should specify a special flag using  the `compoundwords controlled` statement that marks dictionary words that can participate in compound formation:

```
compoundwords  controlled z
```

Here are some examples for the Norwegian language:

```
SELECT ts_lexize('norwegian_ispell', 'overbuljongterningpakkmesterassistent');
   {over,buljong,terning,pakk,mester,assistent}
SELECT ts_lexize('norwegian_ispell', 'sjokoladefabrikk');
   {sjokoladefabrikk,sjokolade,fabrikk}
```

MySpell format is a subset of Hunspell. The `.affix` file of Hunspell has the following structure:

```
PFX A Y 1
PFX A   0     re         .
SFX T N 4
SFX T   0     st         e
SFX T   y     iest       [^aeiou]y
SFX T   0     est        [aeiou]y
SFX T   0     est        [^ey]
```

The first line of an affix class is the header. Fields of an affix rules are listed after the header:

- parameter name (PFX or SFX)
- flag (name of the affix class)
- stripping characters from beginning (at prefix) or end (at suffix) of the word
- adding affix
- condition that has a format similar to the format of regular expressions.

The `.dict` file looks like the `.dict` file of Ispell:

```
larder/M
lardy/RT
large/RSPMYT
largehearted
```

### Note

MySpell does not support compound words. Hunspell has sophisticated support for compound words. At present, PostgreSQL implements only the basic compound word operations of Hunspell.