The function `format` produces output formatted according to a format string, in a style similar to the C function `sprintf`.

```
format(formatstr text [, formatarg "any" [, ...] ])
```

*`formatstr`* is a format  string that specifies how the result should be formatted. Text in the  format string is copied directly to the result, except where *format specifiers* are used. Format specifiers act as placeholders in the string, defining how subsequent function arguments should be formatted and inserted into the result. Each *`formatarg`*  argument is converted to text according to the usual output rules for  its data type, and then formatted and inserted into the result string  according to the format specifier(s).

Format specifiers are introduced by a `%` character and have the form

```
%[position][flags][width]type
```

where the component fields are:

- *`position`* (optional)

  ​          A string of the form `*`n`*$` where *`n`* is the index of the argument to print. Index 1 means the first argument after *`formatstr`*. If the *`position`* is omitted, the default is to use the next argument in sequence.        

- *`flags`* (optional)

  ​          Additional options controlling how the format specifier's  output is formatted. Currently the only supported flag is a minus sign (`-`) which will cause the format specifier's output to be left-justified. This has no effect unless the *`width`* field is also specified.        

- *`width`* (optional)

  ​          Specifies the *minimum* number of characters to use to display the format specifier's output.  The output is padded on the left or right (depending on the `-` flag) with spaces as needed to fill the width. A too-small width does  not cause truncation of the output, but is simply ignored. The width may be specified using any of the following: a positive integer; an  asterisk (`*`) to use the next function argument as the width; or a string of the form `**`n`*$` to use the *`n`*th function argument as the width.          If the width comes from a function argument, that argument  is consumed before the argument that is used for the format specifier's  value. If the width argument is negative, the result is left aligned (as if the `-` flag had been specified) within a field of length `abs`(*`width`*).        

- *`type`* (required)

  ​          The type of format conversion to use to produce the format specifier's output. The following types are supported:                                                    `s` formats the argument value as a simple string. A null value is treated as an empty string.                                            `I` treats the argument  value as an SQL identifier, double-quoting it if necessary. It is an  error for the value to be null (equivalent to `quote_ident`).                                            `L` quotes the argument value as an SQL literal. A null value is displayed as the string `NULL`, without quotes (equivalent to `quote_nullable`).                                            

In addition to the format specifiers described above, the special sequence `%%` may be used to output a literal `%` character.

Here are some examples of the basic format conversions:

```
SELECT format('Hello %s', 'World');
Result: Hello World

SELECT format('Testing %s, %s, %s, %%', 'one', 'two', 'three');
Result: Testing one, two, three, %

SELECT format('INSERT INTO %I VALUES(%L)', 'Foo bar', E'O\'Reilly');
Result: INSERT INTO "Foo bar" VALUES('O''Reilly')

SELECT format('INSERT INTO %I VALUES(%L)', 'locations', 'C:\Program Files');
Result: INSERT INTO locations VALUES('C:\Program Files')
```

Here are examples using *`width`* fields and the `-` flag:

```
SELECT format('|%10s|', 'foo');
Result: |       foo|

SELECT format('|%-10s|', 'foo');
Result: |foo       |

SELECT format('|%*s|', 10, 'foo');
Result: |       foo|

SELECT format('|%*s|', -10, 'foo');
Result: |foo       |

SELECT format('|%-*s|', 10, 'foo');
Result: |foo       |

SELECT format('|%-*s|', -10, 'foo');
Result: |foo       |
```

These examples show use of *`position`* fields:

```
SELECT format('Testing %3$s, %2$s, %1$s', 'one', 'two', 'three');
Result: Testing three, two, one

SELECT format('|%*2$s|', 'foo', 10, 'bar');
Result: |       bar|

SELECT format('|%1$*2$s|', 'foo', 10, 'bar');
Result: |       foo|
```

Unlike the standard C function `sprintf`, PostgreSQL's `format` function allows format specifiers with and without *`position`* fields to be mixed in the same format string. A format specifier without a *`position`* field always uses the next argument after the last argument consumed. In addition, the `format` function does not require all function arguments to be used in the format string. For example:

```
SELECT format('Testing %3$s, %2$s, %s', 'one', 'two', 'three');
Result: Testing three, two, three
```

The `%I` and `%L` format specifiers are particularly useful for safely constructing dynamic SQL statements. See [Example 43.1](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/plpgsql-statements.html#PLPGSQL-QUOTE-LITERAL-EXAMPLE).